Hi, and welcome to the lecture on
statistical linear regression models,
as part of the regression
modeling Coursera course,
which is part of our
Data Science Specialization.
My name is Brian Caffo, and
I'm a professor in the Department
of Biostatistics of the Johns Hopkins
Bloomberg School of Public Health.
The class is toe,
co-taught by my co-instructors and
colleagues Jeff Leek and Roger Peng.
Finding a good regression line using least
squares is really simply a mathematical
procedure.
However, we'd like to do statistics.
We'd like to draw emphasis
based on our data.
In other words we'd like to generalize
from our data to a population
using statistical models.
And that's what we're going to talk about
in the statistical in your regression
lecture today.
So let's consider our probabilistic
model for linear regression, and
we're going to start with,
one of the most simple ones.
A response y-i is our line
beta one plus beta one x-i,
where we don't know beta naught or
beta one,
these are the population parameters
that we would like to estimate.
X i is a collection of explanatory
variables that we do know.
And then to make it a statistical model,
we're going to add Gaussian,
iid Gaussian errors,
which I'm going to denote epsilon i.
So the epsilon i's are going to be
assumed to be normal mu sigma squared.
There's a lot of different ways to
interpret these Independent errors.
Perhaps one of the easier ones is
to think they're the accumulation
of a lot of variables that you didn't
model that maybe you should have,
that act together on the response in a way
that can be modeled as if independent and
identically distributed Gaussian errors.
However, let's put these kind of
difficult interpretation issues aside for
the time being, and
simply talk about how we mechanically work
with statistical inference for regression.
I would note that the expected value of
the response given a particular value of
the regressor, is simple the line at
that regressor, beta 0 plus beta 1 xi.
And the variants of the response
at any particular value of
the regressor is sigma squared.
This latter point, let me elaborate
just a little bit, this is the variants
around the regression line,
this is not the variants of the response.
So it will be lower than the variants
of the response by itself because you
explained away some of the variation
with X by conditioning on X.
I would also note that both
this expected value and
the variance are population quantities.
They have sample analogues that
will estimate, but right now,
these are population quantities,
these are the estimands that
we would really like to know.